Add troubleshooting guide for missing app telemetry in Kibana (#2784)
elastic/docs-content: troubleshoot/ingest/opentelemetry/edot-sdks/missing-app-telemetry.md

---
navigation_title: No app-level telemetry in Kibana
description: Diagnose lack of telemetry flow due to issues with EDOT SDKs.
applies_to:
  stack:
  serverless:
    observability:
  product:
    edot_sdk: ga
products:
  - id: cloud-serverless
  - id: observability
  - id: edot-sdk
---

# No application-level telemetry visible in Kibana

> This page helps you diagnose the most common reasons application-level telemetry doesn’t appear when using {{edot}} (EDOT) SDKs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page helps you diagnose why application-level telemetry doesn’t appear when using {{edot}} (EDOT) SDKs:
```

* [The SDK is disabled (`OTEL_SDK_DISABLED`)](#sdk-disabled)
* [Auto-instrumentation or SDK initialization runs at the wrong time](#auto-instrumentation-not-attached)
* [The runtime or framework isn’t supported, or is only partially supported](#framework-not-supported)

## No telemetry and logs mention `SDK disabled` [sdk-disabled]

If the logs mention `SDK disabled` or nothing at all, the SDK is likely disabled by configuration.

Check the following:

* **Environment variable**  

	Many SDKs honor `OTEL_SDK_DISABLED=true` (or the equivalent in config files or flags). You can print the current value of the variable, for example: `printenv OTEL_SDK_DISABLED`.

	For more SDK-specific details, see the [EDOT Node.js setup guide](opentelemetry://reference/edot-sdks/nodejs/setup/index.md) or [EDOT Python troubleshooting](../edot-sdks/python/index.md).

> * **Exporter settings that effectively disable signals**  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Exporter settings that effectively turn off signals**  
```

	* `OTEL_TRACES_EXPORTER=none`, `OTEL_METRICS_EXPORTER=none`, or `OTEL_LOGS_EXPORTER=none`
	* Sampler turned off: `OTEL_TRACES_SAMPLER=always_off` or sampling probability set to `0.0`

* **Multiple configuration sources**  

	CI/CD pipelines or container manifests (such as Kubernetes `env:` blocks) may override local settings. These environments often require setting variables at deployment time.

### Resolution [res-sdk-disabled]

To fix the issue, try the following:

* **Enable the SDK**

	Unset `OTEL_SDK_DISABLED` or set it to `false`.

* **Enable exporters/sampler**

	Choose a valid exporter (for example `otlp`) and a sampling strategy with a non-zero probability (for example, `parentbased_traceidratio` with a ratio > 0).

* **Restart the process**

	Restart after changing any configuration. Some SDKs only read environment variables at startup.

If telemetry is still missing, you can enable debug logging. Refer to [Enable debug logging for EDOT SDKs](https://www.elastic.co/docs/troubleshoot/ingest/opentelemetry/edot-sdks/enable-debug-logging/) for guidance.

## Auto-instrumentation isn’t attaching [auto-instrumentation-not-attached]

> If auto-instrumentation isn’t attaching, or only partial data appears, the SDK or loader may be initializing too late, after the app or framework has already started.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If auto-instrumentation isn’t attaching, or only partial data appears, the SDK or loader might be initializing too late, after the app or framework has already started.
```

	* **Node.js**: Use a preloader (for example `NODE_OPTIONS=--require <entry>`) or import the SDK before bootstrapping the app. Refer to [Node.js SDK setup](opentelemetry://reference/edot-sdks/nodejs/setup/index.md) for more information.
	* **Python**: Use the launcher (`opentelemetry-instrument`) or import/initialize the SDK before the framework.
	* **.NET**: Set profiler environment variables before starting the process.
	* **PHP**: Ensure the extension is loaded and PHP/FPM/Apache is fully restarted.

	If using Docker or Kubernetes confirm preloading flags or environment variables are placed where the actual process starts.

### Resolution [res-instrumentation]

To fix the issue, try the following steps:

1. Move agent/loader flags to the earliest possible point in your startup chain.
2. Confirm the loader runs. Debug logs should show detected instrumentations or patched modules.
3. Fully restart the service, as reloads are often insufficient for preloaders/agents.

:::{tip}
In debug logs, look for lines that mention `installing instrumentation for …` or `detected framework … version …`. Lack of these hints usually means the loader didn’t run early enough.
:::

> ## App starts, SDK loads, but no telemetry for your framework [framework-not-supported]

Reviewer: I like this title :D

	Some scenarios may require manual instrumentation.

### Resolution [res-framework]

To fix the issue, try the following:

* **Align versions**

	Upgrade or downgrade the SDK or framework to a supported combination.

* **Add manual instrumentation**

	Instrument code paths not covered by the agent.

* **Retest with a minimal app**

	Strip down to core dependencies to rule out issues introduced by third-party libraries.

## Quick triage checklist

| What you see                     | Check                                   | Likely fix |
|----------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------|------------|
| No telemetry at all              | `OTEL_SDK_DISABLED`, exporters = `none`, sampler `always_off` | Unset `OTEL_SDK_DISABLED`, pick an exporter, use a non-zero sampler |
| No/partial data from web requests | Loader order (preload/agent flags early)     | Move loader earlier and restart the process |
| Only custom code shows spans     | Framework not supported/recognized           | Align versions or add manual instrumentation |
| Works locally, not on prod       | Different env/flags in container or service  | Match prod env settings and restart |

> | Still unsure                     | Enable debug logging                         | Inspect logs for disabled/unsupported/delayed initialization hints |

Reviewer: I wonder if this could better be placed at the beginning...

Author: I considered that too, but it seemed a bit vague without the context... On the other hand, it IS meant to be a quick reference to be consumed without reading the whole page 🤷‍♀️  I'll think about it.
